# Discord-Happy-Birthday

## What Does It Do?

Initially it was just for wishing someone happy birthday on their birthday. That is still the core of this bot. However, it now also allows for other users to add responses for each other. These responses are then chosen at random once a day and respond to the user when they send a message. It also tracks the days until the next birthday.

## Reason For Creation

It was my brother's birthday when I originally made this bot. It originally just spammed the server with 1 message for every year he was alive saying "Happy birthday" with his name and the year. There wasn't a limit on it, so it'd do it every time he sent a message. Now it still does wish someone a Happy birthday, but only once per day. However, it still does send 1 message for every year.

I wanted to try to use Go some more though so I decided to expand upon this bot. It now allows for users to add themselves and opt-in to the happy birthday festivities. The users do this through commands. As well as the ability to add responses to other people. All of the information is stored in a simple JSON file.

## Features

- Birthday tracking
- Birthday messages
- Daily responses randomly selected from user added options

## Initial Run

When you run the program for the first time 2 files will be generated by the executable.

- discord.json
- - Where you will store your discord token.
- people.json
- - The file that will store all the user information.

You will need to open the discord json file and replace the example text with the discord token you can get from your [discord application](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

You will need to toggle the following settings in the bot section of your discord bot:

- "Sever Members Intent"
- "Message Content Intent"

When you invite the bot to your server you will need to check the "bot" scope and enable the following "Bot Permissions":

- Text Permissions
  - Send Messages
  - Read Message History

You don't need to go into the people.json file, but if you don't there will always be an extra fake person in there. You add a person manually by replacing the example information with their information. You can also manually delete the example information from the file after you add a user through the discord bot itself.

## How to run

1. cd into the the root directory
    - cd /your/folder
2. Build the go application
    - Windows
        - go build -o Bin\
    - Linux
        - go build -o ./Bin
3. Run the executable however you usually launch them

## Discord Commands

- !help
  - Shows informaiton about the commands
- !response
  - To add a response to another user.
- !add
  - To register yourself as a user.
- !update
  - To update your user information.
- !remove
  - To remove yourself as a user.
- !silence
  - To silence the bot for an hour.
- !talk
  - To un-silence the bot.
- !check
  - Check the time until the bot is un-silenced.
- !quit
  - Not listed by the "!help" command. It will probably be removed later. It stops the bot.
